This is the beginning of the text file
Often a function is given by a formula that describes how to calculate the output value from the input variable. For instance, the equation A = pr2 is a rule that calculates the area A of a circle from its radius r (so r, interpreted as a length, can only be positive in this formula). When we define a function y = ƒ(x) with a formula and the domain is not stated explicitly or restricted by context, the domain is assumed to be the largest set of real x-values for which the formula gives real y-values, which is called the natural domain. If we want to restrict the domain in some way, we must say so. The domain of y = x2 is the entire set of real numbers. To restrict the domain of the function to, say, positive values of x, we would write “y = x2 , x 7 0.” Changing the domain to which we apply a formula usually changes the range as well. The range of y = x2 is [0, q). The range of y = x2 , x Ú 2, is the set of all numbers obtained by squaring numbers greater than or equal to 2. In set notation (see Appendix 1), the range is 5x2  x Ú 26 or 5y  y Ú 46 or 34, q). When the range of a function is a set of real numbers, the function is said to be real-valued. The domains and ranges of most real-valued functions of a real variable we consider are intervals or combinations of intervals. The intervals may be open, closed, or half open, and may be finite or infinite. Sometimes the range of a function is not easy to find. A function ƒ is like a machine that produces an output value ƒ(x) in its range whenever we feed it an input value x from its domain (Figure 1.1). The function keys on a calculator give an example of a function as a machine. For instance, the 2x key on a calculator gives an output value (the square root) whenever you enter a nonnegative number x and press the 2x key. A function can also be pictured as an arrow diagram (Figure 1.2). Each arrow associates an element of the domain D with a unique or single element in the set Y. In Figure 1.2, the arrows indicate that ƒ(a) is associated with a, ƒ(x) is associated with x, and so on. Notice that a function can have the same value at two different input elements in the domain (as occurs with ƒ(a) in Figure 1.2), but each input element x is assigned a single output value ƒ(x).
This is the end of the text file